<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<link rev="made" href="mailto:webmasters@gnu.org" />
<link rel="icon" type="image/png" href="/graphics/gnu-head-mini.png" />
<meta name="ICBM" content="42.355469,-71.058627" />
<meta name="DC.title" content="gnu.org" />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/software/bayonne/css/guide.css" media="print,screen" />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/mini.css" media="handheld" />
<title>IRC Meeting 2012-03-26 - GNU Telephony - GNU Project - Free Software
Foundation</title>
</head>

<body>
<p class="toplinks">
<a href="/software/gnucomm/freecall-roadmap.html#content">Free Call Roadmap</a>
<a href="/software/gnucomm/gnucomm.html#content">GnuComm</a></p>

<div class="title">
<h1>GNU Telephony Meeting 2012-03-26</h1>
</div>

<p class="irc">
When:	2012-03-26<br />
Where:	IRC, Freenode, channel friendica<br />
Time:	22:30 GMT+1<br />
Urls:	chat.freenode.net<br />
Topic:	First IRC meeting 2012 - documentation, roadmap, SIP clients</p>

<pre style="white-space: pre-wrap;   white-space: -moz-pre-wrap;   white-space: -pre-wrap;   white-space: -o-pre-wrap;   word-wrap: break-word;">
<strong>HaakonME</strong>    Are there any questions regarding GNU Telephony?
<strong>simonlnu</strong>    HaakonME: the best client to do debugging/testing a server with?
<strong>HaakonME</strong>    I use Linphone on Debian GNU/Linux 6 Squeeze and CSipSimple on Android. It's a bit early - at least for me - to say which client is best.
<i>Gå inn i      dyfet har gått inn i denne kanalen (~dyfet@ool-457169ef.dyn.optonline.net).</i>
<strong>HaakonME</strong>    The clients have varying degrees of echo cancellation problems. This seems to be device dependent. Tuning mic volume helps, as does checking out the FAQ of your client. The CSipSimple developers have done a lot on different devices.
<strong>HaakonME</strong>    Hello, David! :-)
<strong>dyfet</strong>       Hi!
<strong>HaakonME</strong>    We managed to start without you, but not by much. :D
<strong>dyfet</strong>       Cool!
<strong>dyfet</strong>       I guess this is our first organizational meeting...we should have done this sooner...
<strong>HaakonME</strong>    Yes, better late than never. :)
<strong>dyfet</strong>       Yep :)
<strong>dyfet</strong>       I guess the first thing we should figure out is if this is a good time and day to do these, and to setup the meeting for next month
<strong>dyfet</strong>       Was this a good time for you Haakon?
<strong>HaakonME</strong>    Yes, Mondays at 2130 GMT or 2230 GMT+1 will work for me. Perhaps you can tell us what happened at LibrePlanet. Will there be a video of the event.
<strong>dyfet</strong>       There is a video, or at least the conference sessions were streamed.  I know Murphy NJ also has a video, since he asked what license I want it under :)
<strong>dyfet</strong>       I will quickly summerize.
<strong>dyfet</strong>       Mostly I got to talk about the past and work of people in the conference.  I did not get to discuss much about what we are doing going forward though, because I ran out of time
<strong>dyfet</strong>       I think the key issues from that we should cover here...
<strong>dyfet</strong>       First, I think we need to execute things better, and had proposed we have regular (monthly at least for now) irc meetings for this purpose
<strong>dyfet</strong>       (which we are doing now ;)
<strong>dyfet</strong>       Also, I wanted to clean up the mess that is bug tracking.  Haakon had suggested we adopt Bugzilla awhile back.  I agree.
<strong>HaakonME</strong>    I agree. So the next meeting will be April 23
<strong>dyfet</strong>       Are there any other suggestions for bug tracking?  If not I will look at seeing if we can get that up this week
<strong>HaakonME</strong>    I think we have agreement. :-)
<strong>dyfet</strong>       Next item from that list was to do monthly reporting....we did not have one to summerize for this meeting.  But I would like to suggest we prepare notes and a summery for April 23...
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>   also updating the roadmap would be very nice ...
<strong>dyfet</strong>       Good point
<strong>dyfet</strong>       In fact, there are items from it to discuss...
<strong>dyfet</strong>       So lets jump to that...?
<strong>HaakonME</strong>    Please continue :)
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>   another suggestion i made a while ago: include gnutelephony-blog in planet.debian - maybe attract some more devs...
<strong>dyfet</strong>       Hmm...well, we have one in gnu planet...maybe we can resyndicate?
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>   :)
<strong>HaakonME</strong>    I agree with squeeze, let's try that.
<strong>dyfet</strong>       Does one have to be a debian maintainer to be on planet debian?
<strong>dyfet</strong>       Haakon do you want to check that question out?
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>   hmm good question, but since sipwitch is in debian you could try :)
<strong>dyfet</strong>       Well, we will find out
<strong>HaakonME</strong>    I had a look at http://wiki.debian.org/PlanetDebian , and it seems that since we are actively promoting Debian we might be in the clear.
<strong>dyfet</strong>       Okay...next item...which I wanted to get opinions on, was whether we should commit to a project goal of providing a complete secure free software phone system, whether on a rasbarry pi, freedombox, etc, by the end of this year....
<strong>dyfet</strong>       This one I will throw open to everyone to comment ;)
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>   well nat-traversal should be the first goal
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>   imo
<strong>dyfet</strong>       I agree, but it touches upon different things that would have to happen in parellel also...there is a short list of specific sipwitch tasks I already have which include nat....
<strong>dyfet</strong>       Also I need to clean up access policies and make them a little more sane, or at least less fighting between automatic and manual access rules :)
<strong>dyfet</strong>       And media proxy has to be updated.  Ideally we need to do https port proxying of media and sip (to get through corporate firewalls), but basic nat and media proxy will I think be enough to get to the goal there
<strong>dyfet</strong>       In Bayonne, we need an operational server to support voice mail
<strong>HaakonME</strong>    I think we should do a complete system, but perhaps we should put things in order first, before we say a year.
<strong>dyfet</strong>       Lets do that....lets come up with a complete task list
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>   finally :)
<strong>dyfet</strong>       What additional tasks do we need for sipwitch?
<strong>dyfet</strong>       (after nat with more functional media proxy, and access rules cleanup)
<strong>HaakonME</strong>    We need more configuration examples and further explanation of the settings.
<strong>dyfet</strong>       Good...documentation :)
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>   horray
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>   :]
<strong>dyfet</strong>       Hmm...maybe you and squeeze can get together on that?
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>   sure
<strong>dyfet</strong>      excellent
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Haakon has at least manage to suffer through the documentation and config info we already have ;)
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   Actually, I found most of what I needed was in place. It's the over the Internet thing that stops people.
<strong>dyfet</strong>      What other tasks do people see?
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   We need screenshots or video explanations
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Haakon, would you like to do a video with csipsimple clients?
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  attract more devs...david...say...are you the only one currently coding?
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   My HTC Desire isn't rooted, but my Samsung Galaxy Tab has a screenshot feature. I'll check if there is a screencast option.
<strong>dyfet</strong>      squeeze...sometimes it feels like it :).  Well, Dittermann mostly focuses on zrtp and ijitsu....
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   The screenshot app for Desire needs root
<strong>dyfet</strong>      And Haakon has done lots of things that have already helped
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Squeeze, how do you suggest we attract more developers?
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   We need to send in an application to FERD. I'm on it.
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  more talks, frequently blog-updates, site updates, complete roadmap and docs
<strong>dyfet</strong>      squeeze, that sounds like a good goal to shoot for by next meeting
<strong>dyfet</strong>      at least updates, roadmap, and docs
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  +1
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   +1
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   Let's drill down on those in order.
<strong>dyfet</strong>      talks depend on whats available...what look like good upcoming oportunities?
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   There is the one in June
<strong>dyfet</strong>      And I would love to shift to doing talks with live demos...but we can work on that once we know what/where/when is the next event
<strong>dyfet</strong>      What is in June?
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   http://www.confmanager.com/main.cfm?cid=2607
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Oh yes, I found this one :)
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   Yep! :D
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Do we want to participate at this?  I think Haakon says +1 ;)
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  well for now it would be good to have the videos available for public viewing...
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   What is the best place for these - YouTube or some other place?
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  well why no use the space on gnu?
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   Oh, and +1 for the conference - if we can find the funding to go.
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Well, we have only a week to get a proposal in....
<strong>dyfet</strong>      I have been to DC before...but not in a decade
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  audio-video.gnu.org like your talk ... http://audio-video.gnu.org/video/ghm2011/Haakon_Eriksen-GNU_Free_Call.ogv
Avslutt      n1x har forlatt denne tjeneren (Ping timeout: 240 seconds).
<strong>dyfet</strong>      squeeze - perfect...!
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   Hey - great, Squeeze!
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   One week is a bit tight for the proposal...
<strong>dyfet</strong>      I think we will talk about that conf separately, Haakon...well, we can do something similar to the mei one you did if we needed to get a proposal in, but we need to figure out who can go and how, etc....
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   Yes, I do believe my students are having their oral examination about that time.
<strong>dyfet</strong>      I will have to see if I can go...and I will try to figure that out by midweek
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   Great
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Are there any other upcoming events?
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   http://www.telemed.no/eksterne-konferanser.4264.no.html
<strong>dyfet</strong>      well, we can also have that open as an action item for next meeting :)
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  about bugtracking: would'nt it be easier to keep mantis, clean the spam, disallow anonymous posting and USE IT ':-)
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   These are eHealth conferences gathered by the Norwegian Centre for Integrated Care and Telemedicine in Tromsø
<strong>dyfet</strong>      They have one at may in Oslo?
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   I'll have to look into that.
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Squeeze...well, I think it may be equal work to clean up mantis or to setup something new, at least if not too complex...using it this time will be the key of course! :)
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   I've set up my own Mantis, and felt kindy clunky, but having one is better than none. :)
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  ok
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Well, I do know how to setup Mantis....but since we dont have a real history that needs to be kept, changing now has no impact
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  but if you set up something new it would be nice to have a (phpbb?)-forum too!
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  and keep the devs-mailing-list for devs only :-)
<strong>dyfet</strong>      hmm...you think so?  Hmm...Simon?  How what do you think about a phpbb forum?
<strong>simonlnu</strong>   HaakonME: thanks
<strong>simonlnu</strong>   hi dyfet :)
<strong>dyfet</strong>      :) that is something I know your familiar with ;)
<strong>simonlnu</strong>   phpbb or mybb
<strong>simonlnu</strong>   heh heh ;)
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  yourbb
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  :D
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Haakon do you think we should have a phpbb?
<strong>dyfet</strong>      (or somebb ;)
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   No. At this point I think we are too few to invest in so many channels.
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Valid point...
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Lets have that question again in April
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  well BUT
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  it would help to set up a community
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   Yes, it would, but we have been pushing dev-lists for months and there are few takers.
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   Friendica, on the other hand is fresh, and we have met and forged relationships.
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  yes and its not publicly available
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Well, we also do it seem have a presense on the debian phpbb :)
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  :(
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  sure...
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  but since in the manual section, no question etc are allowed there
<strong>simonlnu</strong>   oh yeh? i have an account there. haven't used it much lately.
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Hmm...that I did not know
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Well, there are two things, really....one is if we should have a friendica node we can offer open to everyone...and the other is if we should setup a phpbb...
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  well its php in the end
<strong>dyfet</strong>      so is mantis :)  We could easily stick them all together...that is the one advantage it did have over bugzilla
<i>Gå inn i     n1x har gått inn i denne kanalen (~muneeb@unaffiliated/n1xnc0d3).</i>
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Hmm...maybe "friendsof.gnutelephony.org"? :)
<strong>simonlnu</strong>   hm, i like that
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  friends.gnutelephony.org
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   +1 squeeze
<strong>dyfet</strong>      +1 squeeze also :)
<strong>simonlnu</strong>   cool w/me too
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  ok +1 for the public friendica node
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   And we add a screenshot
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   +1 for public friendica node
<strong>simonlnu</strong>   recent git master has added screenshots for themes
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  nice
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Now we have to host it...the easiest (and cheapest) would be openshift, though there are questions that come from that too :)
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  pagekite!
<strong>dyfet</strong>      pagekite?
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   Didn't you get an offer from Sweden, David?
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  pagekite.net
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Ohhh...I recall something said about that...Haakon...lets find that....or hipatia...
<strong>simonlnu</strong>   anywhere not in settler north america would be good ;)
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Good point Simon
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   I'll have to turn in in about 10 minutes - it's getting a tad late. :-)
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Okay...I think we have a lot already for next month :)
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Any other items?
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   Roadmap - what's next
<strong>simonlnu</strong>   hmm
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Well, I listed immediate goals for sipwitch.  For bayonne it is getting a running server up.  Then we need to look at the client issue....what items do you have for it?  And of course there is the bluetooth discussion ;)
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Oh, and also...who has a log of this meeting? :)
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   I'll have to start drawing in the rest, and maybe try connecting it via XML-RPC
* <strong>simonlnu</strong> checks his sqlite thingy
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   I do
<strong>dyfet</strong>      lets take the roadmap as an action item definately to present next meeting
<i>Gå inn i     jamesbeebop har gått inn i denne kanalen (~jamesbeeb@184.0.219.224).</i>
<strong>simonlnu</strong>   not enabled..
<strong>dyfet</strong>      (and on the site before that too for people ;)
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   Yup. :)
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Any additional items before people need to go?
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   I think we should say something about the Friendica/sipwitch plugin
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   What does it do now?
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  well its useless without nat-traversal
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Yep...its mentioned on the roadmap, I think...but not much is said.  At the moment you can register to it, and it has a public facing ip address...but it is dynamic, port forwarded
<strong>dyfet</strong>      I need to write a document on even that :)
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  poor david! i wish you get some more fellow devs soon!
<strong>dyfet</strong>      We have it and I am sure nobody even knows how to use it ;)
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  :)
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Okay...any other last minute items?  And I can cut and paste for the log if I have to...
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   NAT is interesting, but we can do a lot before that by making sipwitch easier in a private environment.
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  pls! post future irc meetings on frontpage
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  with timzone and channel
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   Noted +1
<strong>dyfet</strong>      That was why I was focusing on the enterprise goals, Haakon...yes, there is stuff we can do even without nat....
<strong>dyfet</strong>      And anything we do to make it easier helps in all goals :)
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   I've been approached by people in Norway who are thinking about embedded systems inside hospitals.
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   Alerts to phones, that kind of thing.
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Very cool
<strong>dyfet</strong>      We will talk about that more too :)
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   Okay, have to go to sleep now - thanks, guys - it's been fun! :)
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Okay, I think we are ready to close the formal part of the meeting :)
<strong>simonlnu</strong>   g'night HaakonME
<strong>dyfet</strong>      And you get some rest Haakon!
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  good night, haakon
<strong>HaakonME</strong>   Good night, everyone! :-)
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  see you on friendica :)
<strong>dyfet</strong>      I noted a lot of items :)
<strong>dyfet</strong>      But I think most are things we should be doing to organize and communicate better
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  +1
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Well, I am glad we started doing this
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Oh, and we have a cia bot ;)
<strong>simonlnu</strong>   same here
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  i'm glad im here via vpn then :))
<strong>dyfet</strong>      +1 ;)  I was just looking at who is in the room ;)
<strong>simonlnu</strong>   heh
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Now if we did have a cia bot, I suppose we could get a copy of the log through a foya, but no doubt it would be radicated
<strong>dyfet</strong>      (foia)
<strong>dyfet</strong>      :)
<strong>simonlnu</strong>   i enabled the mysql logger script
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Well, next time we will make sure to address that before the meeting ;)
<strong>simonlnu</strong>   yes ;). i'll leave it running, and truncate periodically (it can get big)
<strong>simonlnu</strong>   except the meetings of course
<strong>simonlnu</strong>   i'll do my usual, and make backups first
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  perhaps a gnutelephony-channel would be better than a friendica one
<strong>simonlnu</strong>   yeh
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Well, we do have the old #bayonne channel....
<strong>simonlnu</strong>   hmm :)
<strong>dyfet</strong>      We could request a new #gnutelephony one, too...
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  well that'd be good for corporate design at least ;-)
<strong>simonlnu</strong>   that would be a good idea. hah [squeeze] :)
<strong>dyfet</strong>      like daleks...."incorporate...incorporate..."
<strong>simonlnu</strong>   hehe
<strong>simonlnu</strong>   "assimilate, assimilate"
<strong>dyfet</strong>      Same thinking...
<strong>simonlnu</strong>   yep ;)
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  i love star trek :-))
<strong>dyfet</strong>      be back....
<strong>simonlnu</strong>   ok doky
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  well what about the other guys/gals in here ...just listening?!
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  well too bad i gotta go too...
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  good n8 and see you soon :)
<strong>simonlnu</strong>   g'night [squeeze]
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  greets to david and you simon! (til next month or on friendica :-) )
<strong>[squeeze]</strong>  bye
<i>Avslutt      [squeeze] har forlatt denne tjeneren (Quit: Verlassend).</i>
<strong>dyfet</strong>      yeah a few quiet people :)
<strong>dyfet</strong>      But I am heading out also for tonight...good night Simon
<i>Avslutt      dyfet har forlatt denne tjeneren (Quit: Ex-Chat).</i>
<strong>simonlnu</strong>   g'night
</pre>

<hr class="thin" />
<div class="footer">
<p>This page was retrieved in January 2018 from the Wayback Machine archive of the <a
href="https://web.archive.org/web/20141006055041/http://www.gnutelephony.org:80/index.php/GNU_Telephony_Meeting_2012-03-26">
GNU Telephony website</a> (available under the <a
href="/licenses/fdl-1.3.html">Free Documentation License&nbsp;1.3</a>).</p>

<p>Last update on gnutelephony.org: 12 April 2012.</p>
</div>

</body>
</html>
